OK before I jump into anything let me introduce you to a concept that you already have been using this
whole time without knowing what it is.
It is the concept of axis specifies axis specifies are basically tools at our disposal that allow us
to show or hide methods properties constructors classes and fields.
They're allowing us as programmers to specify access to the entire application.
Now we have quite a few of them but I will be going over the very main ones which I use the most to
keep the course simple.
But once you understand the concept behind axis specifies which is not that complicated then you will
be able to understand any other ones that might not have been mentioned in this course.
Done this video will be going over public axis specified and you have guessed it right.
Just like in the diagram that we saw in the previous video the public axis specifies says that if we
make any method field property etc. public then it can be used from within the class and from the outside
of the class.
So in other words any object has access to it before even going over the other axis specifies.
I want to propose a hypothetical problem.
So again as we solve this hypothetical problem we can understand the concepts and what the idea is behind
these concepts even more thoroughly.
So imagine this.
Imagine if one of our clients who were writing this application for says hey man we just got a new requirement.
We want all of our sales people to have five stages of selling.
As you can see here right.
These stages are engaged the customer establish trust and address concerns demonstrate value and close
the deal.
These are some of the new ways in which they are trying to sell.
Got it.
Now the problem is that we want to only have the method sell to still be exposed to the world and not
the five stages and we want to be able to override these five stages specifically in each of salesmen
child classes or any other new salesman child class in the future that we might add please make it happen
for us.
Wow.
So that's the problem.
So let's take a look at the diagram that they sent us in order to better understand the requirements.
As you can see we have our abstract salesmen class right here.
Well they have that and we have the child classes I only have two here.
But we obviously have more than two and what the requirement is is that we want to have only the sell
method to be public.
So this guy so that other objects can call it from the outside so they can call the sell method and
it can show us how it sells but want to sell using five steps method.
So these are other methods in which we are selling and this is what we want to use in order to sell.
But what they say is that these methods cannot be accessed from outside of the class so they have to
be only accessible from within the class.
But then what they also say is that the five steps need to be overwrite a bull in the child classes.
So they need to be a all into child classes but you know children have to have access to them.
But the outside world can not have access to them right the outside world can only call cell.
And the reasoning behind it is that you know the outside world if they only call let's say Step 3 address
concerns.
That's really not going to show how those salesman sells because that's only one part of the sale selling
process right.
If they call sell however sell within the class we'll know how to order the methods together it'll say
first I engaged then I establish trust then I address concerns then I demonstrate value then I close.
But anybody from the outside that does not know how to put these together and doesn't have that you
know business logic behind them they might put them in the wrong order or they might just call one method
or two methods and they will mess up the sell process right.
So if you can imagine if this was actually a thing that was let's say this is some type of class that
is actually making a sale then that sale would have been compromised.
If you know somebody else just called the third method without knowing that they shouldn't just call
the third method.
Now what axis specifies give us once again it's just more stability and regulation.
What we're doing is we're saying listen these methods we're going to hide from certain classes we're
going to only show it to other classes because we know that what what can happen will happen right.
So if we leave these public then we know that there's a chance somebody might call them and if they
call them then that's not going to be the proper process.
So why not mitigate that risk and hide them and only expose what we need to expose so that there is
no risk of sabotaging a sale.
Right.
So that's kind of like the idea behind the requirement.
So let's start from the simplest part.
We have our sell method.
We only have that let's go ahead and make sure that the world can access it once we check and verified
that that part works.
We'll then move on to making the five stages of selling and then making them override a bull only in
the child classes.
So I'll go ahead and open this one up and go to these salesmen abstract class and here we see that our
sell is public seats these are the axis specifies so public public.
So the property is also public construct there is also public where only this time we're talking about
the method so we have public abstract abstract means that this can be overriding all in its child classes
will you know that this is the return type not just void just see it says that it's not returning anything
because it's not public is the axis specifies so that it says that the world can access it.
Now once you once you inherit as a child from this abstract class as we saw in the previous videos for
example on the retail salesperson then you can overwrite this cell class and that's fine that's actually
make sure that this is you know we can access it.
And so I'm going to actually go clean all this stuff up and what I'm going to do is I'm just going to
say retail salesperson and that's equals new retail salesperson
so here we go.
And then I'm going to just say that sell.
All right.
Here we go.
So we just verified it.
This is public.
So another class so a program.
This is a class was able to use cell.
So it was able to access cell from its own method which is Maine and the Maine is just kind of like
the entry point into the whole application.
But it is a method nevertheless.
So you know it's able to access our cell method.
So for now we know that we're using public access specified to expose cell method and it is able to
be accessed from within and from the outside classes.
That part of our requirement has been satisfied.
And the next couple of videos will be satisfying the rest of the business requirements.